### Free Your Hands: Lightweight Relightable Turntable Capture Pipeline

Novel view synthesis (NVS) from multiple captured photos of an object is a widely studied problem. Achieving high quality typically requires dense sampling of input views, which can lead to frustrating and tedious manual labor. Manually positioning cameras to maintain an optimal desired distribution can be difficult for humans, and if a good distribution is found, it is not easy to replicate. Additionally, the captured data can suffer from motion blur and defocus due to human error. In this paper, we present a lightweight object capture pipeline to reduce the manual workload and standardize the acquisition setup. We use a consumer turntable to carry the object and a tripod to hold the camera. As the turntable rotates, we automatically capture dense samples from various views and lighting conditions; we can repeat this for several camera positions. This way, we can easily capture hundreds of valid images in several minutes without hands-on effort. However, in the object reference frame, the light conditions vary; this is harmful to a standard NVS method like 3D Gaussian splatting (3DGS) which assumes fixed lighting. We design a neural radiance representation conditioned on light rotations, which addresses this issue and allows relightability as an additional benefit. We demonstrate our pipeline using 3DGS as the underlying framework, achieving competitive quality compared to previous methods with exhaustive acquisition and showcasing its potential for relighting and harmonization tasks.